CHUANLONG (BEN) DU
Email: dclong@iastate.edu      Phone: 515-203-1787 Blog: http://dclong.github.com/


Highlights of Qualifications:
>	Motivated, Diligent and hardworking person well trained in statistics, computer science and math. 
>	Demonstrated extensive experience in machine learning/data mining, survey sampling, Bayesian analysis, time series, algorithms, data structures, parallel computing, OOP, Linux, etc.
>	Versatile wit with exceptional computer skills including R, SAS, SQL, Java, C/C++, Python, Ruby, VB.net, JavaScript, MATLAB, etc.


Education:
>	PhD, Statistics, Iowa State University (ISU)                              Expected June 2013
>	BS, Statistics, University of Science and Technology of China                             June 2008


Projects:

Salmonella Shedding Phenotypic Classes Prediction
>	Examined data quality with the R package "arrayQualityMetrics"; uncovered and dropped a problematic chip.
>	Invented non-statistical methods to filter genes/variables/features; alleviated the problem of large number of variables (genes) and small number of observations (samples).
>	Integrated the lasso method with the logistic regression model to further select genes; identified a small list of biologically interesting genes which is under investigation using qPCR technology. 

Clustering Equivalence Classes of 3-D Orientations
>	Proposed a hierarchical method for clustering orientations with spatial information; the method has several "knobs" for tuning clusters.
>	Originated a series of Markov chains on partitions (named Du Process); proved properties of the Du process; illustrated use of the Du Process in model-based Bayesian clustering.

Implementation of Statistical Methods in C++
>	Implemented carefully designed high performance template classes for adaptive rejection sampling; the implementation is much faster than the R package "ars" which is implemented in C.
>	Implemented template classes for sequential permutation test which takes advantage of parallel computing; developed the R package "dclong.spt" wrapping the C++ code.

Intelligent Email System
>	Developed a broad scope email-based-applications system in MS Access using VBA. 
>	Functions of the system includes: contacts database; holiday, birthday and agenda reminder; borrowing and lending system; Englis (extensible to other languages) words and phrases learning; general purpose email parser, e.g., automatically download students's homework for printing. 
>	All applications in this system are highly interactive via email.
>	The system greatly simplifies daily work and improves work efficiency. 

Teaching Experience:
>	Acted as teaching assistant and lab assistant for several graduate level courses including Statistical Methods, Advanced Probability Theory, Advanced Statistical Inference and Bayesian analysis.
>	Stimulated students's interests; cultivated and enhanced their understanding in statistical concepts.
>	Tutored a student during summer 2009 on probability theory; improved and expedited her study. 


Selected Publications:
>	T. Bancroft, C. Du and D. Nettleton (2013). Estimation of False Discovery Rate Using Sequential Permutation p-Values. Biometrics. doi: 10.1111/j.1541-0420.2012.01825.x
>	E. M. Takacs, J. Li, C. Du, L. Ponnala, D. Janick-Buckner, J. Yu, G. J. Muehlbauer, P. S. Schnable, M. C.P. Timmermans, Q. Sun, D. Nettleton and M. J. Scanlon. Ontogeny of the Maize Shoot Apical Meristem. The Plant Cell Online, Am Soc Plant Biol, 2012, 24, 3219-3234.
>	C. Du, S. Vardeman and D. Nordman (2013). One-Sample Bayes Inference for a New Class of Distributions on Equivalence Classes of 3-D Orientations Defined by Crystallographic Symmetries. Technometrics, tentative accepted.  
>	C. Du (2012). A Series of Stationary and Ergodic Markov Chains Defined on Partitions with Applications in Bayesian Clustering. (submitted to Bayesian Analysis) 
>	C. Du (2013). A Method for Identifying Grains in EBSD Scans of Material Specimens Using Spatially Informed Clustering of 3-D Orientations. (working)


Extracurricular Activities:
>	Organized Career Day 2012 for the Dept. of Statistics and the Dept. of Math at ISU.
>	Lunched a software learning group and taught R, MATLAB and Mathematica to members.
>	Revitalized the mailing list of CSSA in Ames and maintained it for 2 years.
>	Initiated an "English Only" campaign among international students in the Dept. of Statistics at ISU. 



